Readme.md, before:

# Unreal Plugin: Odin Wwise Adapter

![Wwise and ODIN](https://docs.4players.io/assets/images/wwise_with_odin_header-bb97f77fa2adf0aa23dcc9129f61c216.jpg)

This is an optional Unreal Engine plugin that provides an Audio Input Component for integrating our [ODIN Voice Chat Plugin](https://odin.4players.io/voice-chat/) with the [Audiokinetic Wwise Sound Engine](https://www.audiokinetic.com/products/wwise/) in Unreal.

__IMPORTANT:__ This Plugin is designed to be used with Version 1.x of the ODIN Voice Chat Plugin and is not compatible with Version 2.x!

## Guide

Following is a short guide outlining the integration of the Plugin into your Unreal Engine project. Alternatively you can look up how to integrate Odin and Wwise manually in our [Developer Documentation](https://docs.4players.io/voice/unreal/guides/odin-wwise/).

## Getting Started

To use the Component we recommend the following:

- Basic knowledge of Unreal as well as Wwise
- The Wwise Plugin for Unreal, which you can get from the [Audiokinetic Launcher](https://www.audiokinetic.com/download/)
- The ODIN Voice Chat Plugin, available [here](https://github.com/4Players/odin-sdk-unreal/releases)

To set up Wwise in your project, please follow Wwise's integration documentation. You can find the documentation [here](https://www.audiokinetic.com/library/edge/?source=UE4&id=index.html).

To set up the ODIN Voice Chat Plugin, please take a look at our [Getting-Started guide](https://docs.4players.io/voice/unreal/).

## Plugin Structure

The plugin consists primarily of the `UAkOdinInputComponent`, which serves as a substitute for the [UOdinSynthComponent](https://docs.4players.io/voice/unreal/blueprint-reference/odin-synth-component/). The component uses the Odin SDK to generate Audio and forward it to the Wwise Audio Engine instead of to the Unreal Audio Engine.

## Usage

### Installation

You can install the plugin similarly to the Odin plugin:
1. Download this repository
2. Create a folder in your Unreal Project's `Plugins` directory and move the contents there
3. Follow the steps below to use the Component in your project

### Wwise Project Setup

The `UAkOdinInputComponent` requires a Wwise Event to playback the Odin Audio Data in your Unreal Project. This enables you to define additional properties and effects in Wwise that should be applied to the voice chat audio. For instance, this allows audio designers to apply spatial audio processing to the voice chat.

To provide Unreal with the correct Wwise Event you need to add an Audio Input Plugin Source to your Soundbank. An example of this can be found in the [sample project](https://github.com/4Players/odin-unreal-wwise). To achieve this, you can follow these steps:

- In the `Audio` tab of the Project Explorer right-click on the wanted work unit of the `Actor-Mixer-Hierarchy` and add a `New Child->Audio Input`.
- Make adjustments to it like needed in your project.
- Make sure to go to the `Conversion` tab in the Contents Editor and set the Conversion to `Factory Conversion Settings->PCM->PCM as Input` by clicking on the `>>` button.
- Right-click the newly created source and add a `New Event->Play` to it.
- If you have no Soundbank yet, create one.
- Lastly you need to add that event to the Soundbank by dragging it from the `Events` tab in the Project Explorer to the Soundbank's Content Editor.

Export using the Wwise Browser as described in the [Audiokinetic Guide for Unreal](https://www.audiokinetic.com/en/library/edge/?source=UE4&id=gettingstarted.html) and you are good to go! A quick way to import to your Unreal Project is to open it in the Unreal Editor and go to `Window->Wwise Browser`. Here you can click on `Generate Soundbanks` in the top right corner. Now you should be able to see your defined `Play_voice` event in the `Events` folder of the tree. Drag and drop it into a folder in your content browser to use it in the Unreal project.

### Integrating the Adapter in your Unreal Project

To use the Wwise adapter, replace the `OdinSynthComponent` from your original Odin implementation with the `AkOdinAudioInputComponent`.

1. Set the associated Wwise audio input event by calling `PostAssociatedAudioInputEvent` on the `AkOdinAudioInputComponent`

Tip: You can add the `AkOdinAudioInputComponent` directly on your Player Character as a component. This approach makes it easier to manage its properties and Wwise-specific settings.

## Conclusion

This Odin to Wwise adapter for Unreal provides powerful audio control for your voice chat integration. It enables your audio designers to leverage Wwise's extensive audio processing capabilities for voice chat, including:

- [Wwise Spatial Audio](https://www.audiokinetic.com/en/wwise/wwise-spatial-audio/) for proximity chat and position-based audio
- Advanced audio effects and processing
- Dynamic mixing and audio states

For more information, check out these resources:

- [Video Tutorial Series on Odin and Unreal Engine](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLAe4Im8mFTAuFFrFKnnl_MMJi8de7dYHs)
- [Odin General Introduction](https://docs.4players.io/voice/introduction/)
- [Odin Unreal SDK Blueprint Reference](https://docs.4players.io/voice/unreal/blueprint-reference/)

Commit message:

Update ODIN Voice Chat Plugin setup instructions
Added link to sample project in Getting-Started guide.

Readme.md, after:

# Unreal Plugin: Odin Wwise Adapter

![Wwise and ODIN](https://docs.4players.io/assets/images/wwise_with_odin_header-bb97f77fa2adf0aa23dcc9129f61c216.jpg)

This is an optional Unreal Engine plugin that provides an Audio Input Component for integrating our [ODIN Voice Chat Plugin](https://odin.4players.io/voice-chat/) with the [Audiokinetic Wwise Sound Engine](https://www.audiokinetic.com/products/wwise/) in Unreal.

__IMPORTANT:__ This Plugin is designed to be used with Version 1.x of the ODIN Voice Chat Plugin and is not compatible with Version 2.x!

## Guide

Following is a short guide outlining the integration of the Plugin into your Unreal Engine project. Alternatively you can look up how to integrate Odin and Wwise manually in our [Developer Documentation](https://docs.4players.io/voice/unreal/guides/odin-wwise/).

## Getting Started

To use the Component we recommend the following:

- Basic knowledge of Unreal as well as Wwise
- The Wwise Plugin for Unreal, which you can get from the [Audiokinetic Launcher](https://www.audiokinetic.com/download/)
- The ODIN Voice Chat Plugin, available [here](https://github.com/4Players/odin-sdk-unreal/releases)

To set up Wwise in your project, please follow Wwise's integration documentation. You can find the documentation [here](https://www.audiokinetic.com/library/edge/?source=UE4&id=index.html).

To set up the ODIN Voice Chat Plugin, please take a look at our [Getting-Started guide](https://docs.4players.io/voice/unreal/). A sample project can be found in the corresponding [branch of our minimal samples](https://github.com/4Players/odin-unreal-minimal-samples/tree/wwise-adapter-sample).

## Plugin Structure

The plugin consists primarily of the `UAkOdinInputComponent`, which serves as a substitute for the [UOdinSynthComponent](https://docs.4players.io/voice/unreal/blueprint-reference/odin-synth-component/). The component uses the Odin SDK to generate Audio and forward it to the Wwise Audio Engine instead of to the Unreal Audio Engine.

## Usage

### Installation

You can install the plugin similarly to the Odin plugin:
1. Download this repository
2. Create a folder in your Unreal Project's `Plugins` directory and move the contents there
3. Follow the steps below to use the Component in your project

### Wwise Project Setup

The `UAkOdinInputComponent` requires a Wwise Event to playback the Odin Audio Data in your Unreal Project. This enables you to define additional properties and effects in Wwise that should be applied to the voice chat audio. For instance, this allows audio designers to apply spatial audio processing to the voice chat.

To provide Unreal with the correct Wwise Event you need to add an Audio Input Plugin Source to your Soundbank. An example of this can be found in the [sample project](https://github.com/4Players/odin-unreal-wwise). To achieve this, you can follow these steps:

- In the `Audio` tab of the Project Explorer right-click on the wanted work unit of the `Actor-Mixer-Hierarchy` and add a `New Child->Audio Input`.
- Make adjustments to it like needed in your project.
- Make sure to go to the `Conversion` tab in the Contents Editor and set the Conversion to `Factory Conversion Settings->PCM->PCM as Input` by clicking on the `>>` button.
- Right-click the newly created source and add a `New Event->Play` to it.
- If you have no Soundbank yet, create one.
- Lastly you need to add that event to the Soundbank by dragging it from the `Events` tab in the Project Explorer to the Soundbank's Content Editor.

Export using the Wwise Browser as described in the [Audiokinetic Guide for Unreal](https://www.audiokinetic.com/en/library/edge/?source=UE4&id=gettingstarted.html) and you are good to go! A quick way to import to your Unreal Project is to open it in the Unreal Editor and go to `Window->Wwise Browser`. Here you can click on `Generate Soundbanks` in the top right corner. Now you should be able to see your defined `Play_voice` event in the `Events` folder of the tree. Drag and drop it into a folder in your content browser to use it in the Unreal project.

### Integrating the Adapter in your Unreal Project

To use the Wwise adapter, replace the `OdinSynthComponent` from your original Odin implementation with the `AkOdinAudioInputComponent`.

1. Set the associated Wwise audio input event by calling `PostAssociatedAudioInputEvent` on the `AkOdinAudioInputComponent`

Tip: You can add the `AkOdinAudioInputComponent` directly on your Player Character as a component. This approach makes it easier to manage its properties and Wwise-specific settings.

## Conclusion

This Odin to Wwise adapter for Unreal provides powerful audio control for your voice chat integration. It enables your audio designers to leverage Wwise's extensive audio processing capabilities for voice chat, including:

- [Wwise Spatial Audio](https://www.audiokinetic.com/en/wwise/wwise-spatial-audio/) for proximity chat and position-based audio
- Advanced audio effects and processing
- Dynamic mixing and audio states

For more information, check out these resources:

- [Video Tutorial Series on Odin and Unreal Engine](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLAe4Im8mFTAuFFrFKnnl_MMJi8de7dYHs)
- [Odin General Introduction](https://docs.4players.io/voice/introduction/)
- [Odin Unreal SDK Blueprint Reference](https://docs.4players.io/voice/unreal/blueprint-reference/)
